Release notes summary for OpenShift 4.11 (#195)
appuio/openshift4-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/release_notes.adoc

TIP: This page lists notable changes in OpenShift releases which we find important. Reading release notes for you as a service.

== OpenShift 4.11

More flexible alert routing for User Workload Monitoring::

> You can now https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-enable-alert-routing-for-user-workload-momitoring[enable alert routing] as well as spin up a https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-enable-dedicated-alertmanager-for-user-defined-alerts[dedicated Alertmanager] for User Workload Monitoring. Further retention can now be defined based on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-confgure-retention-size-for-metrics-storage[disk usage].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-enable-alert-routing-for-user-workload-momitoring[enable alert routing] as well as spin up a https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-enable-dedicated-alertmanager-for-user-defined-alerts[dedicated Alertmanager] for User Workload Monitoring.

Additionally, metrics retention can now be defined based on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-confgure-retention-size-for-metrics-storage[disk usage].
```
Technically the note about metrics retention based on size should probably be its own entry, as it doesn't relate to alert routing strictly speaking.

New subcommand to work with tokens::

> `oc create token` replaces https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-oc-commands-flags-tokens-deprecated[several existing commands]. Check your aliases, scripts and other convenience tools you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`oc create token` replaces https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-oc-commands-flags-tokens-deprecated[several existing commands].
Check your aliases, scripts and other convenience tools you use.
```

Deprecation of `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1`::

> Before update a cluster, check for usage of `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1`. If used, inform the affected users and ask them to update to `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before update a cluster, check for usage of `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1`.
If used, inform the affected users and ask them to update to `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1`.
```

TIP: This page lists notable changes in OpenShift releases which we find important. Reading release notes for you as a service.

== OpenShift 4.11

> OpenShift version 4.11 is available.

Reviewer 2: Since when? Having dates in release notes is crucial to me... See older release notes on this page how it was done.

Find the release notes at the upstream documentation as https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html[OpenShift Container Platform 4.11 release notes].

> The https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/whats-new-in-red-hat-openshift-4.11[What’s New in Red Hat OpenShift 4.11] blog post can also be a valuable resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/whats-new-in-red-hat-openshift-4.11[What’s New in Red Hat OpenShift 4.11] blog post is also a valuable resource.
```

Disk usage base metrics retention::

Metrics retention can now be defined based on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-monitoring-confgure-retention-size-for-metrics-storage[disk usage].

New subcommand to work with tokens::

`oc create token` replaces https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.html#ocp-4-11-oc-commands-flags-tokens-deprecated[several existing commands].
Check your aliases, scripts and other convenience tools you use.

Deprecation of `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1`::

Before update a cluster, check for usage of `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1beta1`.
If used, inform the affected users and ask them to update to `snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1`.

> ...

Reviewer 2: What's that?

Author: It is called a thematic break: https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/blocks/breaks/#thematic-breaks.

I used it here to clarify that the reference to the blog post does not belong to the above section, but is a remark for the content that follows. It is rendered as a horizontal line (html <hr />).

From https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/whats-new-in-red-hat-openshift-4.11[the blog post] we learn:

> footnote:[No direct section links available.]

Reviewer 2: I don't feel that this brings any value to the reader
